Hi and welcome to the course since this is a practical course.
We're going to jump right into it and the plan is that we're going to first take a look at how we can
do sentiment analysis using less than 60 lines of code.
So just using less than 60 lines of code we're going to do basic sentiment analysis and show you how
you can use any text to predict the sentiment that is being expressed by that text.
The court part is really easy.
The theory and installation of the environment is a different story but we can get to that later on.
Once we have the concept skier.
So what we're going to do is we're going to use this web based framework which allows us to start doing
our code and experimenting with it without having to do any installation.
So for that we go to try it on Jupiter dot org.
So Jupiter provides a notebook type environment in which you can input text and code side by side and
have that code execute it.
So it's a very useful tool.
If you haven't used it you should look up Jupiter notebook.
That is what we're going to be using throughout the course and in one of the future videos which cover
how to do the installation for this Jupiter notebook.
But for this video let's jump right into it by using cried Jupiter which is online.
And we go in here we click on try a classic notebook.
Once you click on that it's going to open up a window and it's going to set up a random binder for us.
So once that is done you can see a window that looks like this.
So what we can do over here is we can double click on this.
This one thing this gray box that you can see overhead is called a cell.
We can input model number here or we can input code in this.
So there are a lot of things that we can do here but this is not a tutorial on Jupiter notebooks or
let's just zip through this.
So here we can go ahead and take on cut to get rid of these existing cells and we get a blank.
And now here we can type some code so this can be any python code.
So for instance you can say X is equal to five you hold shift and hit enter.
And that is going to execute this.
You can say print x and it's going to output X for you.
So any python code that you can write you can execute over here.
So that's the basic of Jupiter notebook.
Write the code in the cell called Shift hit enter and the cell is going to be executed.
So that's essentially it.
Now what we want to do is we want to experiment with some code and do sentiment analysis with it.
I've already written some code for you Don't worry about the complexity of the code.
We're going to come back to this in one of the future videos within this course and we'll explain every
part of this.
But right now what you need to understand is the gist of things.
The big picture how we are going to approach sentiment analysis that is the objective in this video
so that you can have an overview of what we're trying to achieve.
I am providing the complete source code over here and you can type it up in Jupiter notebook in the
online binder and it will work but I suggest that you go through this and in one of the future videos
we'll come back to this and you will be able to execute this code line by line and we'll discuss it
in detail.
So in any case let's go ahead and jump into this.
So what we're going to do is we're going to take a data set.
That is the I am D.B. data set for sentiment analysis.
The way it works is you have some review given by a user on a movie and some people have labeled these
reviews as being either positive or negative.
So each review is going to express a sentiment of the user.
We are going to feed this data set a part of this data set to the machine and the machine is going to
learn how to predict whether a sentence is positive sentiment or negative sentiment.
Once we have done that learning we can give some new text to the machine and the machine will predict
whether that sentiment is positive or negative.
Now you can imagine somebody coming up with a new product and that product is getting some reviews from
people on Twitter or any other social media.
And what the business people want to know is whether those sentiments are positive or negative.
How many are positive how many are negative those kinds of things.
So sentiment analysis is a huge area and it's very useful.
But you already know that because you search for discourse and you get drawn here.
So let's go ahead and look at how to approach is technical in how we can actually do sentiment analysis
using just these less than 60 lines of code.
So we're going to execute this code one by one.
So the code is already dead and that's the beauty of Jupiter notebook.
We can prepare the code beforehand and execute it at runtime.
Right.
So let's go ahead and execute the cells one by one so we'll shift it enter.
This is going to install the required laboratories which is get us intensive row.
Again we'll come back to this in one of the featured videos.
But as you can see this has been installed now.
Now I'm going to import this library which is get us and it's going to use tensor flow in beckoned.
So we have that we are going to do some imports again.
You don't have to understand what these things are doing at the moment.
All you have to understand is that we are creating a model.
We're going to feed the data to the model and then we're going to test whether that machine has learned
properly or not.
So again we are going to set some parameters which are going to be controlling the learning.
Again do not have to understand what this is doing.
But we come back to this in one of the future videos and understand each bit in detail very little.
This is again for the sake of completion.
This is a bug in the Get Us library.
So we are going to come back to what this does in one of the featured videos we are going to load the
data set.
So this is odd I am dataset which is provided by get us we're going to load this and we are going to
split them into training and testing.
Right.
So that's already done for us by at.
So this is the important line over here which is loading the data set for training and testing.
So we execute that and it's going to load the data.
This might take a little bit of time the first time you run it but after that you should have this output
in here.
Now what we want to do is we want to create some helper functions which are going to allow us to convert
the information that is available in the data set into a human readable format and convert the human
readable sentences into the format that the machine can understand.
Let's go ahead and take a look at one of the sentences.
So we take that training data points.
So one sentence or one review and we decode that into a sentence because currently the way it's saved
in the dataset is going to be a bunch of numbers.
And we want to read it.
So once we do that you can see that this is the review.
So this film was just brilliant casting location scenery stories so it's kind of a positive view and
to ensure that we print the label and the label is one which means positive if the sentiment was negative
then it would have been a zero.
So again in the in the very next video we're going to see how this 0 and 1 plays into the classification.
But for now let's go ahead and see how you can take a sentence and then convert it into the format that
the machine understands.
So again that's a helper function and we take these couple of words and we translate them into this
format.
So this is the format that the machine sees the sentence in but we don't understand this format.
So we write code in this format and have these helper functions convert them into the format that the
machine understands again we have some more pieces which are going to massage the data into a format
that can be easily fed to the actual learning model.
So that's done.
And this portion of it here is our model.
Again we explain each and every bit of this model here and what we're trying to achieve is a sense of
the flow.
So we loaded the data we massaged it into a format that the machine can understand and we can understand
so we can go from one format to the other.
And then we are loading this into this model over here.
So this is the brain.
We're defining what the brain is how the machine is going to think.
So we have that we get a couple of warnings but that's fine.
And this portion of it had this very last line this fit function is essentially the learning portion
and what it's going to do is it's going to take all of that data.
So twenty five thousand different reviews with the sentiment label it's going to go through all of them.
So the machine is learning right now.
So once that learning has been done we are going to take some testing data.
So this is going to be our testing data which is going to be used to evaluate whether the machine has
learned proper new or not.
So we'll have to wait a little while until all of this learning is done.
So it's going to do to pass it so one pass is done it has gone through the whole reviews had once and
now it's going through it again.
Again the buy of it is going to in one of the future videos right now for recap we loaded the data we
fed it to a model we defined what the model is and now we are doing the learning.
After this we are going to do some predictions and see whether the machine has actually learned to predict
from reviews or not.
So these are the movie reviews.
So this is important to note over here that all of the reviews are related to movies and they are not
general sentences.
We'll come back to this point in just a little while.
In this video.
So now we have these testing data points.
So we're going to run this again we are going to take all the predictions and we're going to ensure
that we get a negative and e.g. if the prediction made by the model for the review is negative sentiment.
Right.
So for instance if you take the first data point from this testing data.
So if you take this data point you want to show what the sentence is.
And we want to see what the sentiment has been predicted by the machine.
Now remember the machine has not seen this data point during its learning.
This is the testing dataset.
So we run this and you can see that this film requires a lot of something this you end game means something
because it focuses on mood and character development.
The plot is very simple yada yada yada.
So that's a review.
And the machine thinks this is a positive review.
We're not really sure.
Maybe you can go through the whole review and see whether the machine made a mistake or not.
What I want to do is I want to focus on another very very important aspect of doing any sort of machine
learning the way people do machine learning is they get to this point.
They take the learning of the model they take the data set they do the predictions and they're done.
The gap means of taking this understanding and taking it to a point where you can solve your own problems
using this learning.
Now that is a very important aspect.
Whenever you're doing any sort of machine learning what you want to do is take this information to a
business and have that business on a real world problem.
Utilize this to solve their own issues.
Right.
But people skip that one very important step and that is why machine learning is not achieving its true
potential in the business domain.
Now I want to cover this in this very first video so that you understand that in this course we are
taking this practical approach and we are going to solve real world issues.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to take some very simple sentences so these sentences have not
been seen by the machine at all.
They are completely new they are not related to movies even but since they are English language the
machine having learned the sentiment prediction should be able to predict whether these sentences are
positive sentiment of negative sentiment.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to take three sentences.
So the first one is I do not like this at all.
So that is obviously a negative sentiment.
The second sentence is loved it.
And the third one is I did not love it.
So we're going to take all three of these sentences.
We're going to put them together in one variable and we are going to essentially massage this this new
data into the format that the machine can use.
So if you recall over here we had modeled on predict excessive and we are going to do a very similar
thing over here model not predict death sentences which are these sentences that we just got up and
we are going to see what the machine does with these.
So let's go ahead and run this if we do the predictions you can see that this first sentence.
I do not like this at all is a negative sentiment.
Loved it is positive and did not love it is negative.
Now you can see that the machine has indeed learned how to predict the sentiment.
And this is very important.
Must you arrive at this point and as you can see this is less than 60 lines of code.
You can now take any social media sentences for instance a tweet you can put this over here and you
can see whether these sentiments are positive or negative.
You can set up a pipeline which reads a Twitter hashtag about your product and feeds it into this machine
and the machine can predict in real time whether the reviews about your product are positive or negative.
And you can do all sorts of things with this and this is just using less than 60 lines of code.
Now of course these 60 lines of code back a lot of information.
So there is a lot to cover over here but that's what this course is for.
So this is kind of an outline for the whole course.
Nobody going to step back and see the pipeline of how to approach machine learning using a very simple
case study.
And for that we're going to use another tool kit which is I could learn what I'm going to use I could
learn to predict the digits in an image because that's a basic case study and it's very easy to understand.
Once we are done with that we're going to take yet another step backwards and we're going to have a
little bit of fury and then we are going to do the installation of get a stencil for an all the required
tools.
And we are going to go back after that to this code over again and explain every bit of it in detail.
So stay tuned for the next video where we take I could learn and apply a very basic machine learning
pipeline.